---
layout: post
title: "Guide to setting up an EC2 instance (t2.micro)"
date: 2018-01-02
---

things that have happened since the new year (aka yesterday and today) - got my spider up and running (FINALLY T.T), got my script done for resizing and uploading the images to my AWS S3, and now, here I am building my EC2 instance!

Keeping a record of this because it is fairly painful (spider ranked at 10, resizing images about a 3, this is like, 7... for now).

Here we go!

---

Pick an AMI - I have no clue so for now I'm going with the one that my udemy online course is using. Not a GPU cause I'm basically just going to use this to upload the images to S3.

After I SSH-ed in, I tried to do a pip3 install - failed.

_Error message: 
The program 'pip3' is currently not installed. You can install it by typing:
sudo apt install python3-pip_

Ok, so I do the sudo apt install right...
fail.

_Error message:
E: Unable to locate package python-pip_

Finally after some googling, this worked:

```bash
sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
sudo apt-add-repository universe
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python-pip
```

And then, `sudo apt-get install python3-pip`

Another error pops up:

_Error message:
locale.Error: unsupported locale setting_

```bash
export LC_ALL="en_US.UTF-8"
export LC_CTYPE="en_US.UTF-8"
```

_A suggestion comes up:
You are using pip version 8.1.1, however version 9.0.1 is available.
You should consider upgrading via the 'pip install --upgrade pip' command._

And the suggestion doesn't work, so after googling, here goes:

Use this `sudo -H  python3 -m  pip install --upgrade pip`

AFTER that... (i had alot of errors, i know) - for all the pip3 installs, i had to add sudo in front (to indicate super user) like so `sudo pip3 install pillow`

No clue about that...

---

because I was accessing AWS i had to download awscli again, set up my credentials etc etc...

but finally...I GOT IT MOVING MUAHAHAH

---

80,000 images, here i come ;)