---
layout: post
title: "Restart"
date: 2025-08-27
---

Wow - it's been 4 years! Looking back on my previous posts... how far I've come, how much things have changed - my mindset, my interests, my skills?

The technology has, of course, changed tremendously as well. 

It is nice to look back and reflect.

---

Today I return to this platform, with (maybe?) the same intention - to once again share about what I am learning about recently.

Why now? Perhaps I have a bit more breathing room nowadays. And also, because I have just passed my __AWS Machine Learning Engineer - Associate__ certification, so a nice point to start my sharing I guess.

---

It was not easy (I was prepared to fail and retake, to be honest!) - but I will share what I did do:
1) I went through the full prep content on AWS Skill Builder for Machine Learning Engineer - Associate. I think this probably took me a couple of weeks, 1 hour per working day (and I watched at 1.75x speed).
2) Completed and redid the mock exams on the AWS Skill Builder for Machine Learning Engineer - Associate until I got all the questions rights.
3) I only managed to squeeze in 50 questions from https://www.udemy.com/course/practice-exams-aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate/?couponCode=MT260825G1 ahead of the exam (and I got like a third of them wrong... hence my low confidence). I feel like the questions in this course are quite similar to the actual questions (more so than the Skill Builder pretest). As such I would definitely recommend completing all 3 test question sets and making sure you are able to score 80-90% on them for higher confidence. The actual passing mark for the exam is around 70% I believe.

Good luck!

---

Stay tuned for more content - I would like to get back to this and post at last maybe once a week. 18 more weeks till the end of 2025! LFG